MATHS

Math is a fundamental language which is used to understand science. 

To the core, maths may have been developed as a counting tool, to represent "how many" of a particular object is available. The maths of counting may seem 
simple, but as we develop on the subject, we understand there are different bases (radix). Again, most commonly accepted counting system - Hindu-Arabic Number 
System consists of 1-9 along with 0. The addition of 0 represents that there is nothing present, which may seem obvious now, but it was a significant addition. 
Addition of the concept of negative integers to the available Hindu-Arabic Number System is what we now use, called as Decimal number system (radix 10). And 
number by itself does not contain any meaning unless it is combined with an object or a context (number of units of that object or simply units, and to simplify, 
unit means one, therefore number of units implies total number of individual items of an object)

one (meaningless) vs one apple (object)
three (meaningless) vs three cars (object)
or when talking about rating (context), 4 may represent something to someone who already knows the rating system, and what 4 represents in it. 


When concept of counting is extended to visual perception, using symbols, we can denote 0 as a . (dot)

. in mathematical terms, does not have a magnitude, or direction. 

here we need to understand that a set of 'dots' does not make 'one', and here is where we understand significance of 0.
adding 1s we get higher numbers, and operations on 1 / higher numbers may produce 'higher dimension'
but a 'dot' or a 0 is nothing, you cannot build on it, you cannot produce 'higher dimension' from it. 

so, in essence everything starts from 1 / a single unit of an object (now you may understand why the non-zero counting systems made more sense for people before 
introduction of Hindu-Arabic number system)

So let us start from 1 ; again, visual perception we represent it by a | (line);
(do not confuse mathematical definition of lines as a set of points, that is geometrical definition and makes sense there, but by our definition, a 'dot' does 
not have a value, and so does a set of 'dots' placed side-by-side)

| in mathematical terms, has a unit magnitude, single direction. (we may use | _ \ / all of these to represent a line of unit length, for visual purposes) 

now this unit length of a line can be placed in-line facing a single direction to represent larger numbers.

_ _ _ _ _  = 5 units of _ 


This is the concept of Addition. 

The next concept is that of a multiplication (repeated addition, interchangeable axb = bxa) (visually a rectangle, square being special case)






square
pythagoras theorem
multiplication is repeated addition
